so it goes like this you're trying to
show a funny cat video to your grandma
but by the time the things finally done
buffering then is fast asleep your Wi-Fi
is way too slow and something or
somebody is to blame no all right let's
line up the usual suspects your router
is in the wrong place
the further your Wi-Fi signal has to
travel the weaker it gets plus obstacles
like walls floors doors and even a TV
set in front of it make the signal even
worse ideally you should put the modem
in the center of your house and mount it
on a wall there are too many people
using one connection if someone's
watching an HD movie in the next room
your internet won't fly if you live in
an apartment building your neighbors
could be using the same broadcast
channel so Wi-Fi is just too congested
household appliances like microwaves
wireless doorbells Bluetooth devices and
even hair dryers all can eat up your
Wi-Fi signal they use a frequency
similar to your routers newer Wi-Fi
gadgets let you choose between the
frequencies they'll use so opt for five
gigahertz bands if you can sometimes
your network is just too slow if it's
your home network you might want to
upgrade to a better plan if it's public
you should look into your Wi-Fi network
priority settings you can choose the
network's your phone will automatically
connect to when it's within reach and
only rely on free hot spots when good
Wi-Fi isn't an option some devices that
aren't working right could be to blame
your wireless network adapt its speed to
the slowest working device if your phone
is sharing a network with that snail it
won't run faster than it if you're using
mobile data you've got some other
possible culprits your location if
you're in a crowded place think concerts
parades etc far away from the nearest
cell tower or inside a building with
thick walls you'll unlikely get perfect
4G coverage plus if it's raining your
signal gets worse because the high
frequency waves phones use don't get
through water as well
your provider could be to blame some of
them have better coverage in certain
areas and almost
and others especially in rural ones
smaller carriers can also have limited
bandwidth and won't get you a top speed
even if you live in the city you might
not be there top priority some providers
only give high-speed Internet to premium
users who pay for unlimited plans during
peak hours it's called deep
prioritization and it can seriously slow
down your phone you might have a
throttled data plan that's when your
carrier will pull the reins on your
internet speed after you reach a certain
threshold if you're on an unlimited plan
with X number of gigabytes you'll still
have internet access
but it'll be creeping along in Z
kilobytes per second instead your phone
might be confused while choosing between
3G 4G LTE and 5g one of these signals
prevails in certain areas adjust your
settings so the phone always jumps to
the faster network automatically you can
also turn off Wi-Fi because your phone
might have trouble ping-ponging between
it and mobile data your SIM card
probably can't make it if you put a 3G
SIM in a 4G phone you're not letting it
live up to its fullest a 4G SIM can
switch to 2g or 3G when needed but the
same problem lost potential your bpn
could also be the issue sure it makes
your browsing private and more secure
but if you're too far away from the VPN
server it can seriously slow you down
the quality of the server and how many
people are using it also affect your
speed adds eat a lot of your mobile data
and processing power more than 60% of
the time a webpage takes to load is
often spent on loading those crazy ads
one script alone can add up to two
seconds and that's an eternity in
internet time browse through your
settings to see which apps you hardly
ever use they along with widgets can
cost you a lot of extra data running in
the background you can also try optimize
lightweight versions of popular apps
including messengers social networks and
YouTube no matter if you're on great
quality Wi-Fi or mobile data if you have
an older phone it can't give you a full
speed experience older phones just can't
keep up with a graphic
and other requirements modern apps and
websites have these days your cash might
be too full that's the place where data
from different websites you visit goes
it makes loading faster first but builds
up 2 megabytes over time clean your
cache manually at least once a week or
get an app to do it for you
automatically all right
suspects check now here's what you can
do to close this case for good and get
that internet running faster before
anything run an online speed test to see
if your internet really is slower than
what you're paying for when you do it
stop any active downloads or video
streaming and get as close to the
wireless router as you can if the
network speed turns out to be ok try
loading different websites on your phone
while you're in the place with the best
reception maybe the problem isn't your
gadget or network at all reboot your
router and restart your phone sometimes
gadgets just feel overworked or
overheated I know I do if you haven't
turned them off for a while
a simple restart could work miracles you
can also try turning on airplane mode
for a minute and then going back to
Wi-Fi and cellular data reboot the
network on an iPhone you can go to reset
Network in your general settings for
Android you'll choose reset Wi-Fi mobile
and Bluetooth in your advanced reset
options make sure you know all the Wi-Fi
passwords you need before you do it
because it'll erase them you might have
to get a new router or Wi-Fi extender if
you have a large house it'll help spread
the signal to remote areas even
separated by concrete walls and doors
try carefully taking out the SIM card
and then putting it back if you see it's
damaged this might be affecting your
internet reception among other things so
get a replacement if nothing else works
call tech support it might be a problem
with the cable line or a cell tower
signal sometimes changing the network
configuration can help but it's your
internet providers job to take care of
that
[Music]